# tpl
a general purpose template cli

## Installation

`npm install tpl` or `npm install -g tpl`

## Usage

### Simple

To parse a file and apply a template, simply provide the file as an argument.

``` bash
tpl hello-world.mkd
```

This will do several things.

1.  Look for a `.tpl` directory in the current working directory, if none exists
    look for one in the parent directory, in the parent's parent directory and
    so on. If there's no `.tpl` directory all the way up to the root, use the
    default `.tpl` in the installation directory.
2.  Use the configuration defined in `./tpl/conf.json`.
3.  Look for a parser for the file extension (`.mkd`). If none was found,
    use the default parser.
4.  Read and parse the file.
5.  Look if the file defined a template, which should be used for its rendering.
    If not, use the default rendering.
6.  Print the rendered document.

If you want to save the output, you can use

``` bash
tpl hello-world.mkd > hello-world.html
```

### Use custom configuration

**tpl** allows you to use nearly any document parser with any templating engine
you want.

The default document parser is [props](//github.com/pvorb/node-props). The
default template rendering engine is [ejs](//github.com/visionmedia/ejs).

If you want to use another parser or template engine, you can do so by adding a
`.tpl` directory in the root of you project.

```
.tpl/
  conf.json
  parsers/
    parser.js     // one or more parser scripts
  templates/
    engine.js     // one or more template engines
    template.ejs  // one or more temlates
```

## Bugs and Issues

If you encounter any bugs or issues, feel free to open an issue at
[github](//github.com/pvorb/node-tpl/issues).

## License

This package is licensed under the
[MIT license](http://vorb.de/license/mit.html).
